nearly the entire population of Gaza
that's 2.3 million people is at imminent
risk of
famine food is so scarce when Aid
appears people are desperate to get
their hands on it while the food that is
available is now very expensive with
500,000 people already facing extreme
hunger as a result of the destruction of
Food Systems due to The Siege on average
only 30 trucks are allowed in Daily to
Gaza compared to 500 at pre-war
levels starvation as a weapon of war is
banned under International humanitarian
law it's considered uh a war crime and a
crime against humanity to deny food uh
the means of existence the means of
subsistence uh to a people uh or to any
uh identifiable group on the basis of
discrimination this is what's
happening this conference in Doha is
focused on Global Food Justice simply
people's right to access food so with
conflict and systematic violence being
the biggest causes of hunger in the
world the war on Gaza is at the top of
the agenda although the restriction and
control of food in Gaza didn't begin on
the 7th of October with this recent
War Gaza has been under blockade since
2007 with Israel controlling what goes
in and out the calories of uh of the
community have been calculated and
translated into a quantities of food and
and and basic stuff and this was
translated into truck laws that were
allowed to Gaza and these types of food
restrictions will likely not end when
this war is
over Gaza did have an agricultural
sector but the damage from the Israeli
bombardment will last a long time it
will need maybe a few years to to check
on the soil uh on the uh remains of
different types of ammunition that was
uh and maybe some mindes and it it
depends also on how much Freedom the
gazans and will have access to the
Mediterranean because uh fishing is is
one of the most important sources of
food security for gazans historically
starvation is largely a man-made problem
and therefore it urgently needs man-made
solutions to stop people dying of hunger
in Gaza the only solution is an end to
the Israeli bombardment imin Kimber Al
jazer Doha
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al
jazer